

95. CHETNA 


web- http://chetnasanstha.org/reachus.html


Vision

 To make the life of rural people more secure and prosperous by motivating and empowering through education, better health, improved skills and livelihood generation schemes.

 

Mission

 For the all round development of peripheral rural areas through incessant effort.



96. Bhojpur Mahila Kala Kendra, Patna


web- http://bhojpurmahila.org/index.php


 A group of women with deep social concern and commitment established BMKK in 1998 to work for a just and progressive society. They want to run constructive socio-economic programmes for women, youth, children and other needy section of the society so that poverty, illiteracy, discrimination, exploitation and social evils may come to an end. BMKK got registered under the Societies Registration Act in 2000 and under FCR Act in 2002. BMKK strives to organize, educate and empower rural poor to promote development as a liberating force aimed at justice, economic growth and self-reliance. BMKK want to establish a just society in which no one remains hungry, unemployed, illiterate and exploited. To empower the powerless, ensure the grass root people’s participation and facilitate their access to local resources. The strategy is such that people should actively involve in programme planning and implementation.


Aim
To organize, educate and empower rural poor to promote development as a liberating force aimed at justice, economic growth and self-reliance.

To establish a just society in which no one remains hungry, unemployed, illiterate and exploited.



97. Gyan Kiran, Buxar


web- http://www.gyankiran.org/index.php


Goal of the Organisation: Implementation and coordination of various different programmes for mainstreaming and complete and lasting development of marginalised section of the society. 

Mission of the Organisation:Making of such society where all human being will have equal oportunity of development. 

Vision of the Organisation: All marginalised section of the society will be mainstreamed through lively hood opportunity and capacity building to lead developed life in healthy system.


98. Shiksha Evam Gramin Vikas Sansthan


web- http://shiksha.webdigitronix.com/


The Institute "Shiksha Evam Gramin Vikas Sansthan" is registered under the Society Registration Act 1860 Act No 21, The Registration date is 23/11/2009. Its main aim is educational & social welfare activity for the poor, minority(Muslim/Sikh/Buddhist/Parsis/Christian) & SC/ST/OBC candidates. Its Basic work is to promote the educational talent of  poor people belonging to minority communities & SC/ST/OBC.
The Institute has been preparing the Students/Candidates belonging to minority communities & SC/ST/OBC for the entrance examination of PET/PMT/Banking/SSC/Railway/Group A B & C for the last 5 years. Our Institute is working in the field of Computer Literacy & Woman Empowerment.

Institute provides FREE COACHING for the preparation of different competetive examinations like PET/PMT/Banking/SSC/Railway/Group A,B, & C belonging to Minority Communities along with SC/ST/OBC Students/Candidates.



99.  Seeta Gramodyog Vikas Sansthan, Jehanabad


web-  http://www.sgvsbihar.org/


Established on the 15 August 1991. As a platform of for discussion and action on development issues concerning the KISAN, rural poor, and Villages, Sita Gramoudyog Vikas Sansthan (SGVS) was founded by a group like minded associated to involve the rural poor in various development activities.


Mission: To educate, organize and empower the rural poor for promoting development as a liberating force aimed at justice, economic growth and self reliance and to capacitate the person with disability for social participation.

Goal: Work for all round development of village community of Bihar and continuous improvement in socio-economic and moral status of native people.



100. Aditya Mehta Foundation (AMF)

web- http://adityamehtafoundation.org/

Aditya Mehta Foundation (AMF) helps people with significant disabilities to pursue their sport of choice and lead a self-sustaining life.

Our vision is to see a bright sporting career for people with disabilities.

Aditya Mehta Foundation (AMF) is a non-profit organisation which aids people with disabilities to pursue sports while providing self-sustenance. India has almost 22.4% of people who are disabled in different forms including blindness, speech, hearing, movement and mental. AMF aims to help them reach their potential in their chosen field of sports and help them have a self-sustaining life.

In India 85% of young adults with profound disabilities in India experience life-long unemployment and have just one-tenth the opportunity for social participation outside the home compared with the “average” Indian. Apart from this, many disabled people who would otherwise have been great sports persons cannot pursue their choice of sport due to disabilities. AMF provides all support including equipment, coaching, counseling etc. to help them to pursue sports to instill independence, rehabilitate them and reinstall them into society.


101. Bal Mahila Kalyan (BMK) 

web- http://www.balmahilakalyan.org/


Bal Mahila Kalyan (BMK) founded in 1990, a non-governmental Organization, was registered under the Societies Act 1860 vide number 293dt 8-8-1991, FCRA act 1976 no 03130001 dated 17-12-1993 and also under the Income Tax Act under Section 12A and 80G. No CIT/BGP/Tech/1222-25 & 1226-31 has its office at Vikash Ashram, Officers Colony, Mirchaibari, Katihar, Bihar, India. BMK also owns about 3 acres of land at Dandkhora Block in Katihar District. More than a dozen full-time and more than three dozen part-time staff under the direct guidance of Smt. Anila Kumari, Secretary BMK, carry out its activitie. 
The organization has acted as a catalyst to improve the socio-economic status of women in villages. It started off with forming “Self Help Groups” (SHG) to empower women economically. It was not an easy path. Initially when the women were asked to save money together as a group they were scared that all their money would be lost. The banks refused to open accounts for them. But middle aged women like Smt. Soghra Khatoon, Smt. Farida Khatoon, and Smt. Raqibun etc were enthused and finally they could open an account at the Kosi Kshetriya Gramin Bank. Various enterprises were taken up – manufacturing of jute handicrafts, for which training was imparted by us in our headquarters, manufacture of plastic toys, poultry farming etc. Ready buyers were found in the local markets. Bank loans were repaid in time; the bank had found a new segment of honest customers. Soon other banks followed e. g. State Bank of India, Central Bank of India etc. Some of these groups were designated as ideal e.g. Mahila Sakti Abhilasa, Nari Pragati, Anmol Mahila Jagran etc. They influenced other women in nearby villages to form new SHG’s. This new found economic freedom enhanced the status of these women in the eyes of the men in their families and mohalla and they became self confident. Women are now respected by men and their voice counts while making a decision which was not the case earlier. BMK has till now been able to initiate the formation of more than five hundred SHG’s.




102. Bhoomika Vihar, Katihar


web- http://www.bhoomikavihar.in/


Bhoomika Vihar is a community based grass root organization has actively been working in Bihar State for the promotion and protection of the rights and dignity of marginalized section adolescent girls. Bhoomika Vihar was formally registered in 1996 under the Societies Registration Act, 1860.

Bhoomika Vihar is a woman headed organization.  Most of the leadership positions are leaded by girls/women.  Victims, survival and vulnerable girls/women are performing actively their leadership position in bringing change especially for breaking the cycle of victimization for them and for other girls. We especially are working with marginalized section vulnerable girls as they are the 1st Generational Learners.

We believe – The girls are our present and future so there is need to involve them with the process of understanding, decision-making, responsibility and ownership. Any Investment in a girl child can reap multiple rewards in future.

Theory of Change of Bhoomika Vihar basically revolves around working with Adolescent girls with Triangle Approaches “Preventive- Curative- Advocacy.” This basically led to overall mainstreaming of adolescent girl at social, educational and economical level. Placing girls in leadership position at Preventive, Curative and Advocacy level, we actually are confronting the biased mindset and Creating Role Models as Chain of Change Makers. This led to motivate and inspire a life with respect and dignity, breaking the cycle of victimization and poverty. Children/girls in need of care and protection are getting involved with constructive approaches and multidisciplinary services for social and educational mainstreaming.



103. green foundation


web- http://www.greenfoundation.in/

Our work to empower the small scale and marginal farmers of India first began in 1994 with a simple effort to distribute indigenous seed varieties in and around the village of Thalli, Tamil Nadu. This soon turned into a growing biodiversity conservation programme that has been central to our work ever since.


MISSION :
Conserve local seed diversity, promote an increased reliance on biodiversity-based ecological agriculture, and use these as foundations for endogenous growth and development of rural communities.
Create a gender-sensitive environment that enhances women’s leadership skills.

Contribute to livelihoods by creatively marketing “value-added” cultivated and wild agricultural biodiversity.

Connect the natural elements—soil, water, air, sunlight, and seed—to ensure an abundance of nutritious food and other basic community needs.

Continue to nurture community participation and assist in building robust community institutions.



104. Avidya Vimukti Sansthan (AVS) 

web-  http://avsngo.org/


Avidya Vimukti Sansthan (AVS) was established as a NGO in 1990 by group of social activists who were inspired by the ideology for the great freedom fighters like Mahatma Gandhi, Binoba & Jai Prakash Narayan, where people should utilize their potential to bring sustainability of their socio-economic condition. To get an exposure of this field the group initiated worked with Samnway Ashram, Bodh-Gaya in Bihar & Nav Bharat Jagriti Kendra, Hazaribagh in Jharkhand, India. AVS wants to promote a self reliant society where people should utilize their potential to bring sustainability of their socio-economic condition. AVS is inspired & guided by the Gandhian vision of Gram Swaraj.

Vision: To establish a self reliant & a sustainable society.

Mission & Goal: To work for the establishment of a self reliant and egalitarian society by providing opportunities to the poor through community based initiatives.



105. People First Educational Charitable Trust, Gaya

web- https://www.peoplefirstbihar.org/


People First  based in Bodhgaya started its work in 1992 in the village of Piani, in Jharkhand India.  Visiting the desperately poor village our founding members, Deepak Kumar and Nick Hansen were moved by the sight of a small child sitting on old sacking with a few school books  outside the government village school waiting for a teacher who never came.  A simple school was started and from that simple beginning People First was born. Now employing over 100 people (nearly all service providers) the Trust now works in Health Education, child protection and welfare, women's rights and poverty alleviation  and education.



106. Women's Empowerment in Indian Villages


web- http://www.weiv-india.org/


WEIV works in the field of community development through women's empowerment. We are working to create a society where women are treated with absolute justice, equality and fraternity and in turn, ensure justice to all the citizens.

Vision: A society without poverty, illiteracy, sickness, child labour or gender and social inequality.

Mission: To create self governing organisations for poverty reduction through achieving basic rights, basic education, health security, gender and social equality, and livelihood security for the poor by empowering women within the community.


107. Bhartiya Jan Utthan Parishad (BJUP)


web- http://bjup.in/about-us-2/


Bhartiya Jan Utthan Parishad (BJUP) is a secular, non-political and nonprofit voluntary organization established by a group of committed individuals in the leadership of Late Sri Devendra Prasad Singh in 1983. The group was inspired by the philosophies of the great freedom fighters and got influenced for voluntary actions after the movement of Jay Prakash Narayan for total revolution. BJUP was was established in 1983 and formally registered in 1986 under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 under article XXI. BJUP started its activities from the district of Nalanda, Bihar.

Today, BJUP is one of the most streamlined organizations involved in the empowerment of the rural and marginalized communities through mutual learning, participatory action and advocacy. BJUP has developed key insights regarding the range of issues associated with the lives of rural and marginalized communities. These insights have enabled the organization to develop effective strategies for addressing the challenges associated with dalits and marginalized community development. BJUP has developed various successful models of community participation which have been widely appreciated by organizations, institutions, experts and professionals involved in the sector across the country.

BJUP has developed key expertise regarding various areas of development which includes; WASH, Child Rights, Education, Health, Women empowerment, Natural Resource Management, Livelihood, Old Age Care and other burning issues of the society.

BJUP has enabled an extensive networking with other like-minded organizations and Govt. organizations/ Departments. These networks have played important role in influencing and strengthening our programs.


108. The All India Centre for Urban and Rural Development


web- http://www.aicurd.com/our-journey



The All India Centre for Urban and Rural Development, a non- governmental organization was founded by Shri D. P. Ray, the then Member of Parliament, in 1985. After it sustained its existence for three years with non-funded projects it started receiving projects from Govt. funding agencies from 1988 to ultimately grow as a national level NGO being operational in 6 states (Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Jammu & Kashmir and Delhi).

In the year 1988-89 AICURD hosted a National Seminar on 'Prevention of atrocities on women' sponsored by the Dept. of Women and Child Development, HRD Ministry. It also undertook to set up a Sewing-cum-Training Centre on its own which imparted training to poor women and girls. Even hand-driven sewing machines were donated to women in distress at village Rampura Delhi, a move widely applauded by everyone. Further, project on survey of socio-economic status of SC/STs in the district of Dumka (Bihar) was launched, aided by Dept. of Social Welfare.


109. ParamCARE Foundation


web- https://paramcare.org/


ParamCARE Foundation is a New Jersey charitable and IRS 501 (c) (3) certified non-profit organization which was established in 2011. It has been actively promoting strategies and activities for healthy living and well-being socially, physically and emotionally through its outreach activities. The organization has been actively engaged to organized various community outreach activities that chiefly focus on improving healthy living in form of community fairs, health screenings, educational and nutritional seminars and yoga sessions for the local community. ParamCARE Foundation has participating in cancer screening and awareness programs with outreach activities. Cancer screening programs has been organized in various locations and facility site also, for raising awareness on cancer and providing education material. ParamCARE Foundation has taken initiative and being hosts qualitative research programs in the form of conduct focus group and generate research database. ParamCARE Foundation has conducted in partnership with the NJ Department of Health, local major health care organizations and local hospitals on various health programs, such as mammogram screening, breast cancer examination, colorectal cancer screening, healthy eating, diabetes wellness and prevention program, chronic disease self-management program, child obesity, stress management and cancer screening and prevention. The organization has published monthly newsletters which has mainly focus on national health observance for the month and distribute them in printed and electronic format. Our Primary target for outreach in the community has been for people who are uninsured, underinsured, recent immigrant and underserved, who have difficulties navigating the health care facilities.



110. People Care Family


web- http://www.peoplecarefamily.org/


People Care Family is a NGO registered under 1860 Society acts with Govt. of Bihar. We are 12A, 80G Certified: whose donation certificate provides tax exemptions as per IT dept. Govt. of India Norms. It came into existence on 28th December 2010 with a strong notion to make people believe in them and wrest the initiative of social change in their own hands, within their own milieu rather than abdicate it to a state.


MISSION
To empower the vulnerable community by influencing the highest standards of governance & engaging proactively in the change process.

VISION
Make a little change to the world by the formation of just and sustainable social order.


111. Loknayak Jaiprakash Narayan

web- http://www.jayprabha.co.in/

Loknayak Jaiprakash Narayan who took part in Freedom struggle of India along with Gandhiji. Many times he went jail and underground for the sake of freedom. After freedom Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru requested Jaiprakash Narayan to join power but he refused and choose to bring the social transformation through total revolution without sharing the political power.


Aim/Objective/Mission:
 The main object of the institution is to establish the values of Gandhian Philosphy in society and make efforts to promote and protect them. To make efforts for social, economic, political moral, educational and cultural upliftment of the residents of the district of Rohtas, Kaimur, Gaya, Buxar and Bhojpur district in particular and other districts of in general. To create a new society and atmosphere by making use of local resources like agriculture, forest and natural. To make effort for the ependence of the villages in true sense of the term. To try to obtain the rights of the village people by enlightening them and arousing the tendency of goodwill and fellow feeling amongst them. To promote the upliftment of the most backward classes of the society. A self-reliant, exploitation and violence free rural society. Holistic participatory development of disadvantaged sections of the rural society for a qualitative change in their life leading to gram swaraj, poverty eradication and restoration of peace through participatory means.


112. Gramin Vikas Seva Sansthan (GVSS)

web- http://www.gvssparoo.org/

Gramin Vikas Seva Sansthan (GVSS) is Non - Government Organization. The idea, to build a caste and classless society and having exploitation free social structure, was initially conceived by the notable social services in the rural area of Shree Devendra Kumar Yadav. GVSS is registered under the Bihar State Societies Act 21, 1860. The vision of the organization is to build an exploitation free social structure based on equilibrium. Organization is working since 15 years in rural and urban areas of Paroo,Minapur and Muzaffarpur districts. It benefited 152122 deprived persons with coverage of 300 villages of 20 panchayat Samitis.The strategy is designed to make them aware of their rights and put light on various available opportunities so as to change their life for better.

 The organisation GRAMIN VIKAS SEVA SANSTHAN refers to keep on continued efforts to work with vulnerable communities for enduring the root causes of poverty and hazards, which has led to a rural urban divide, dreadful diseases and livelihood resilience. . It works for the welfare of society at the very Grass root level like Poor, SC/ST and other downtrodden Classes. 
GRAMIN VIKAS SEVA SANSTHAN primarily aims to work towards Health & Sanitation, education, strengthening & capacity building of local communities with a view to enhancing adaptive capability and community resilient towards overall development of Society. The program strategy is towards achieving acceleration of socio, economic change and environmental sustainability in promoting sustainable livelihood, asset creation and institutional building at the community level.


113. GRAMIN SAMAJ KALYAN SANSTHAN

web- http://www.gramsks.org.in/


ABOUT US
The GRAMIN SAMAJ KALYAN SANSTHAN is a registered society which was establish in 1994. It is an interblent, non- political and non- profit making organization whose spiritual foundation guides members, volunteers to diverse faith and occupation must of then social with considerable experience, to translate exergual values into practical living through selfless service. This is resulted in wide- ranging rural development programmes for the disadvantaged and poor rural families in four district of Bihar State.



The “GRAMIN SAMAJ KALYAN SANSTHAN”(GSKS) is a Non Governmental Organization dedicated to rural development in the Mithila region of Bihar State. Our primary areas of intervention are community development, income-generation, watershed management, women's empowerment, education, and community health. GSKS was registered in 1994, and is currently active helping rural communities in Samastipur, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Begusarai and Supoul Districts. Through our innovative programmes, we help to empower disadvantaged people and aid them in creating healthy, nondiscriminatory, and economically sustainable communities. At GSKS, our committed team continuously modifies its approach based on self-evaluation and awareness of the changing environment. We believe that a deep respect and intimate knowledge of rural people and their challenges is critical in providing them with effective services. . Career planning of youth is another aspect of their capacity building. Migration is an important issue in this area. We believe that vocational training can minimize the rate of migration from the district. GSKS is dedicated to the development of marginalized communities, and for over twenty years we have been their most trusted advocate .GSKS’s partners include bilateral and international agencies like Aga Khan Foundation (AKF), National Bank For Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) ,Rural Youth Coordination Centre under ministry of environment and forest, Bihar state social welfare board, Patna & D.R.D.A Samastipur,Darbhanga,East Champaran, Muzaffarpur & Supoul Distt & Centum Workskills Pvt. Ltd., CIDC New Delhi and Navkar Centre for skills Pvt Ltd. as well as Govt. of Bihar and government of India. 



114. Dr. Shaheen Neshat Memorial Trust, Saran


web- http://www.drshaheenneshatmemorialtrust.org/


This Trust came into existence in this name by the donor founder Bibi Shamim Fatma D/o Late Mr. Mohd Abdul Ghani and Late Bibi Shahidun Nisha and W/o Dr. Md. Qasim, S /o Late Mr. Mohd Ismail and Late Bibi Sobratan, in the memory of their loving daughter - a practicing physician and a pleasing personality having memorable character, who passed most of her days in this locality and known for her dynamic, social thinking and action. She moved with the ill fortunate state of the inhabitant specially the minority muslim community of this locality ; she in her life time decided most dedicately to devote for the advancement of education, art and science, and capability of professional skill of the community living in, and providing guidance to the poor and down trodden mass specially the Muslim minority girls.

The declarant of the trust –the parents, have endeavored to carry forward the mission of their daughter and finally registered the trust in her name, and contributed both movable and immovable property for the advancement of this memorable noble cause, through this trust.


115. Nav Jagriti

web- http://www.navjagriti.org.in/


Genesis
Founded in 1993, Nav Jagriti is recognized as a pioneer grassroots organization in Bihar. It was founded as a society by the group of likeminded and concerned youth of Parsa block of Saran district with an objective to mitigate the flood hazards and to provide a pro active citizen centric public services in the flood prone area of North Bihar. The main motivation of its genesis was heading a great struggle by the youth of Parsa block who were empathised seeing the victims of the fatal flood and continuous water logging since decades in his area. Finally in 1991 these youth had started an informal organization “Jal Jamao Virodhee Sangharsh committee”. Initially the committee was dedicatedly highlighting and raising the issues related to flood and its disaster on different platforms but it was limited to Saran only. These youth had wings of fire thus they were unstoppable. They wanted to bring a larger social change in the lives of people who were affected by the flood, thus that informal committee turns into a structured organization called Nav Jagriti (NJ) and since its inception it has been working day in day out.

Vision
Nav Jagriti aspires to ensure dignified life and better living conditions for the poor, disadvantaged and vulnerable sections of the society.

Mission
Our mission is to build capacities and thus empower the disadvantaged and vulnerable sections of the society with special focus on safeguarding the rights of women and children. We engage with communities and all other stakeholders to work together for their entitlements and rights, address problems of social exclusion, human trafficking, violence; reduce poverty through livelihood and entrepreneurial interventions and build their capacities in disaster risk reduction and resilience.



116. SHIKSHA

web- http://www.theshiksha.org/



We are a Non Government Organization Registered under Indian Societies Registration Act 1860. Our name decodes our motto. We are one of the fastest growing organizations in the field of Skill Development, Education and Training. Shiksha has been working in different funded/Non Funded, Central/State Govt. projects like PMKVY, STAR, ESDM, NDLM, BSDM, DDUGKY etc. We believe in imparting skill based training supported by placement or funding for self employment. Till now, we have trained more than 100000 trainees under different format of training. Presently we are working in almost all states within Territory of India. Our aim is to create a digitally literate prosperous India where there is No poverty and unemployment.


117. GRAM VIKAS PARISHAD


web- https://gvpindia.org/


About Us
Gram Vikas Parishad (GVP), within 25 years of its inception in 1987, has become a synonymous with women’s empowerment, child labour rehabilitation etc. Working in some of the poorest districts of India, Madhubani, Darbhanga, Samastipur, Madhepura, Saharsa, Araria, Supaul, Sheohar and Sitamarhi (Bihar), GVP had to face blockades at every step. The geographical terrain compounded by political apathy has led to many miseries in the region.

Due to the number of rivers, the region is flood prone, economically impoverished due to lack of industrial infrastructure, and finally lack of development due to political apathy. GVP answered the need of the region for a strong willed organization to lift the morale of the people in general, empower the women subjected to suppression for centuries, child labour working in the local brick kilns and child labor, safe migration ,Income genaration, Community Empowerment, climate change, rampant human trafficking from Nepal and Bangladesh due to the proximity of the borders. GVP has emerged as the only Resource Centre in this region on the social issues, it not only provides training to the partner NGOs and but also provides data to the funding organizations on the various issues of concern to them.

The respect for the organization can be seen in the eyes of the millions of poor people living in the area WE MADE A DIFFERENCE…


118. Gramin Roshni Jan Kalyan Sansthan


web- http://graminroushnijks.org/


Gramin Roshni Jan Kalyan Sansthan
is an NGO in India directly benefitting over 40,000 children and families through more than 100 welfare projects in education, health, livelihood and woman empowerment spread across remote villages and slums in 25 states in India.

Gramin Roshni Jan Kalyan Sansthan is a solution provider company always keeping its services up-to-date with the latest technology, thus providing the best solution with high-end class to its customers. We are the one of the few companies that have had the opportunity of working on various istinguished projects. We have associated with many of the companies and agencies and have lived up to the expectation of the client by timely and successful completion.



119. Ghoghardiha Prakhand Swarajya Vikas Sangh


web- http://www.gpsvs.org/


GPSVS is a civil society organization based in Madhubani district of Bihar.
GPSVS was established on 18th April, 1977 as a consequence of a sustained voluntary involvement of its founder members in their collective struggle for access to land (agriculture and homestead) for landless, decentralising democracy and community based mechanisms for self reliance and sustainability, fight against unrestricted distortions within society, cultivating a block (an administrative unit in a district) as the focal point for promoting an inclusive model of Swarajya, Vikas, and Sangh (Self Reliance, Development and Organization). The concept and practices of total revolution is the culture of the organization and it derives its inspiration to work towards its vision by adhering to the value systems and beliefs of Mahatma Gandhi , Vinoba Bhave and Jayprakash Narayan.


GPSVS has a vision of re-establishing Gram Swarajya ( Village self - reliance) based on principles of Equity , Justice , Tolerance and Ahimsa

( Non Violence ) and channelizing efforts towards a society in which moral revolution constitutes an integral parts of its functioning 



The mission of the Organization is to develop people's conscience to coexist with nature; function with high moral values; develop tolerance towards all faith; propagate compassion and non-exploitative attitude in interactions; achieve dignity , self -reliance , equity and sovereignty .??



120. SSVK – Samajik Shaikshanik Vikas Kendra,


web- http://www.ssvk.org/


ORGANISATIONAL PERSPECTIVE

Locating the developmental anomaly in structural causes such as control/ownership of and access to resources; economic, political and social structures; ideological factors (habits, beliefs, cultural preferences); and insufficient awareness and knowledge; SSVK stands committed to the effective empowerment of the marginalised people. It lays a strategic focus on the element of local action, treating it as an essential part of the development process involving changes, most important of which is, in the attitude and action of the marginalised who become participants in the process itself. Rural development is viewed as a complex process involving continuous reorientation and adaptation of traditional values , practices and institutions in order to facilitate appropriate interventions/technologies to enhance quality of life and welfare, and the consequent bargaining /negotiating powers, of the disenfranchised and the disempowered.























