

37.Yog Manav Vikas Trust, Chamba

web- http://www.ymvt.org/


Amidst beautiful serene atmosphere of hills & peaceful location surrounded by snow capped peaks near Dalhousie/Banikhet, Yog Manav Vikas Trust was established in the year 2001 as a social charitable non profitable organization by few officers of NHPC and their wives led by Shri & Smt Dodeja with the objective of serving the humanity in the field of Education, Social upliftment, Women empowerment, Rehabilitation, Capacity building, Environment and Spiritually since Chamba district is considered backward district of Himachal Pradesh comprising over 90% population livin in rural areas with overall literacy rate of Chamba being at 65% and SC/ST population being 20-25% and over  60% families belonging to Below Poverty Line (BPL) with agriculture being the mainstay for 70% of total population. NHPC Engineers while working in Chamba district during various periods since 1978 had the opportunity to have insight into the hardships and suffering of rural folks and their children living in the remote areas in the vicinity of number of Hydro Electric Projects constructed by NHPC, hence determined to initiate the activities in the above fields for the cause of human development.


38. Himalayan Village Education Trust, Chamba

web- https://hivetrust.wordpress.com/


Purpose: Education, women empowerment, rural development.

Aim/Objective/Mission: 

To set up small village development centres using tailoring schools and village libraries as tools, specifically to spread education and awareness, thereby helping the women and children to deal with the problems arising in rural areas.



39.The Kullu Project

web- http://kulluproject.cfsites.org/index.php


The Kullu project was originally set-up in the Himachal valley of Kullu and Manali in 2003.  The central belief on which the project was

founded is that students and professionals, both local and international, can be useful assets to Kullu Valley schools and orphanages.

The skills and enthusiasm volunteers bring, allow for exposure that children would otherwise not receive to people from another culture.

This in turn leads to the introduction of different perspectives, and new experiences that can be generated going forward!


Mission Statement: 

The central committee of the Kullu Project is a facilitating body which integrates international volunteers into local organizations in the Kullu valley. 

The aim of the Kullu Project is to provide a platform for volunteers, specifically gap year or post graduate students, to work with schools,

orphanages, and existing NGO's. Any individual or group that participates in the project has the freedom to integrate their own ideas and utilize their

personal skills, with support and guidance from each organization.

The project is currently looking to recruit volunteers to run educational initiatives for children in orphanages and specialized schools such as the NAB

school for the blind. Activities have included, but are not limited to, English teaching, drama, music, first-aid, team building workshops, camping

trips, bike rides, and discos. 



40.The Kalgidhar Society – Baru Sahib

web- https://barusahib.org/


The Kalgidhar Society – Baru Sahib is a non-profit charitable organisation focussed on providing quality education to fight against the alarming rise in drugs and alcohol abuse. With equal stress on Healthcare, Women Empowerment and Social Welfare, the organisation has been instrumental in the socio-economic uplift of the poor in the far-flung rural areas of North India.

Our Mission
Today the rural areas of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan, and the backward hilly areas of Himachal Pradesh and Punjab are dotted with 129 low cost CBSE Schools, providing modern, value-based education to around 70,000 students. The students are mostly from the deprived sections of society, admitted regardless of caste, creed, region, religion and social status. The aim is to build a total of 500 low cost schools to provide value-based education to all children at the village level.

Our Vision
The Kalgidhar Society, Baru Sahib also runs 24 Colleges, two Private Universities, six Teachers Training Centres to empower 2000 rural girls, one Hospital with 280 beds, three De-addiction Centres, one Orphanage, one Old Age Home, and one Rehabilitation Centre for Distressed Women, apart from organising four Free Medical/Surgery Camps for the poor in the hilly areas of Sirmaur, Himachal Pradesh.




41.Ecohorts  Himalayan Eco Horticulture Society 

web- http://www.ecohorts.org/index.html



The Foundations of Ecohorts
Ecohorts is a non-profit organisation registered in India under the "Indian Societies Registration Act XXI 
1860". The vision behind the creation was to promote sustainable and eco-friendly horticultural 
development in the Himalayan region, environmental  conservation and socio-economic upliftment and 
empowerment of fellow rural folks.

The Ecohorts Organization
Ecohorts is a group of volunteers led by an eminent farmer, Mr. Lakshman Thakur. Its members include 
successful Entrepreneurs,  fruit growers, scientists, researchers and extension workers who have a 
commitment and desire to transform the Himalayan region into a world class environmentally responsible 
horticultural based industry.


42.Centre for Sustainable Development, Sundernagar

web- http://censud.org/


Purpose: Sustainable development

Aim/Objective/Mission: 
To steward the use of earth’s resources in a manner that protects natural ecosystems, supports economic growth, improves public health and educates. To promote the integration of social, economic and environmental dimensions of sustainable development at regional and national levels. To encourage the wide spread adoption of integrated approaches to sustainable development in the areas of energy, agriculture, education, health and waste management. To devise and implement such solutions and strategy which maintain balance between livelihood, development and ecology.


43.CORD – Chinmaya Organisation for Rural Development


web- http://www.chinmayamission.com


Purpose: Education, health, NRM, water, women empowerment, child development, rural development, disability.

Aim/Objective/Mission: To harness human resources and enable the poor to transform their lives through programmes driven by themselves. To facilitate participatory and integrated sustainable development for the poor. To harness human resource and enable poor and marginalized people; especially women and the disabled too, to transform their lives, their economic status and the interrelated issues through participatory, comprehensive, integrated and sustainable development process and systems in the community.


Chinmaya Mission® was established in India in 1953 by devotees of the world-renowned Vedanta teacher, His Holiness Swami Chinmayananda.  Guided by his vision, devotees all around the world formed the nucleus of a spiritual renaissance movement that now encompasses a wide range of spiritual, educational, and charitable activities, ennobling the lives of thousands in India and across its borders. Presently, headed by His Holiness Swami Swaroopananda, the Mission is administered by Central Chinmaya Mission Trust (CCMT) in Mumbai, India. Under his guidance, the Mission has continued mushrooming across the globe and stands today with over 300 centres worldwide.



44.Yog Manav Vikas Trust


web- http://ymvt.org/


Amidst beautiful serene atmosphere of hills & peaceful location surrounded by snow capped peaks near Dalhousie/Banikhet, Yog Manav Vikas Trust was established in the year 2001 as a social charitable non profitable organization by few officers of NHPC and their wives led by Shri & Smt Dodeja with the objective of serving the humanity in the field of Education, Social upliftment, Women empowerment, Rehabilitation, Capacity building, Environment and Spiritually since Chamba district is considered backward district of Himachal Pradesh comprising over 90% population livin in rural areas with overall literacy rate of Chamba being at 65% and SC/ST population being 20-25% and over  60% families belonging to Below Poverty Line (BPL) with agriculture being the mainstay for 70% of total population. NHPC Engineers while working in Chamba district during various periods since 1978 had the opportunity to have insight into the hardships and suffering of rural folks and their children living in the remote areas in the vicinity of number of Hydro Electric Projects constructed by NHPC, hence determined to initiate the activities in the above fields for the cause of human development.


45. Samvedana

web- http://samvedana.org.in/#


Founded in 2003, Samvedana is a non-profit organization registered under Bombay Public Trust Act, 1950. We work for the integrated development of slums with a focus on education, nutrition and skill development of socially and economically deprived children, youth and women.

Our main projects are in more than 50 slum communities in the western periphery of the city and 4 villages in the district of Ahmedabad.

Apart from education initiatives, we have also been working for the malnourished children as a partner with the government’s ICDS project. Under this initiative, Samvedana monitors and adds value to 76 aanganwadis. Through our 4 different projects focusing on education, nutrition and skill development today we have touched lives of over 1 lac 25 thousand beneficiaries which include children, youth and women.

Driven by sole passion for development of children, we are constantly striving to fulfill our purpose of sensitizing the society and transforming lives. Samvedana has merely been an initiator. It is the relentless support of our team of volunteers, corporates, professionals which has collectively worked towards bringing about the difference.

Today the world that we live in is highly dynamic, going through radical changes. At Samvedana we are constantly striving to understand the changing needs of our community and adapt to those needs. We strongly believe that by transforming the lives of the underprivileged, our nation will attain holistic development.































































