
16.Social Awareness in Rural Area Society(SARS)

   web- http://www.sarasngo.blogsopt.com/


    Saras is an innovation social awareness non government organisation [NGO]. Running under the aegis of Harish Chandra Sharma. At Saras, our social activities are directed at creating awareness through specialization programs such as: ? Undertaking Sports Activities ? Village, Community based social programs ? Cultural Activity ? Create ECO Friendly Programs Saras at present, has over 300 active updating members and Angan Wari, who can do field work help at the Talukdar and Regional levels.



17. DRISHTIKONE

web- http://www.drishtikone.org/


DRISHTIKONE is a registered public charitable organization working in the fields of Education, Environment and Medical Facilities—for the underprivileged since 1997 (reg.#1997/2679/IV exempt under 80G & 12A of IT Act 1961)

The beneficiaries of the trust are the local underprivileged populace, especially children.

We have a TRUST BOARD which allows a maximum strength of seven members. Further the reigning Secretary RMS Abhibhabak, Shikshak aur Karamchari Samity is a casting member in the Trust Board. Including him, currently there are 6 members only.



18. Save Gangotri


web- http://savegangotri.org/


Contemplating the ecological disturbances of the Gangotri-Gaumukh area, I decided to undertake practical eco-conservation work. Being a mountaineer, the experience of working in higher altitudes along with my research goals sustained me in my task over the long-term. As such,  my first project focused on the Gangotri-Gaumukh area, which attracts the maximum number of pilgrims, trekkers, and mountaineers (Indian and foreign) in the Indian Himalayas.



19.Gramin Kshetra Vikash Samiti


web- http://gkvs.co.in/index.html

Our vision is to see happy women, Children & Disabled from Happy Families and Happy Communities. We are working with and for the process of progress for a society that is sympathetic to, and in keeping with the wishes of women, Children & Disabled. women, Children & Disabled have a special bond with the natural world and working towards the regeneration of a society that makes children happy will ensure a development that is in harmony with the environment. Children are more sensitive, so involving children in the development process will ensure that we adopt holistic approaches to development rather than concentrating only on economic and material advancement. A society that is committed to the needs of its children is one that is sensitive to the need of a development process that is based on the values of peace, harmony, equality, and sustainability. We want policy and action in the new state of Uttarakhand to center on the development of happy children.

Our mission is to work with children and communities, it organizations/institutions, government, technical and academic institutions and other civil society groups to create a society where every child is happy – their well being assured. And naturally happy children need to be in happy families and happy families need happy communities in which to flourish. All societies want their children to be happy and therefore work consciously or unconsciously towards this end. We have to support and encourage families and communities to achieve this seemingly straightforward goal of happy children. In societies where progress is slow or is skewed we intend to work towards empowering communities to adopt a holistic and wholesome approach to the processes of progress and development. Together we have to empower children to be involved in the making of their own destinies. We will encourage everyone who agrees to commit to our project.



20.Bhartiya Gramotthan Sanstha


web- http://bgsuttarakhand.org.in/index.html



Gramotthan Bhawan . Upper Road, Dhalwala (Rishikesh) . Tehri Garhwal, Uttrakhand- 249201 

Bhartiya Gramotthan Sanstha is a registered organization working since 28 years in the field of social and rural development. Employment generation is the main objective of the organization. 

For achieving its target the organization emphasizes on local raw material based employment. Apart from this, the other working areas of the organization is handicraft, handloom(wool, cotton, jute), jute carpet, giving commercial training to the women self help group (SHG) for income generation, helping SHG in marketing of their products, imparting technical knowledge, forestation, non formal education, environment related programme, cultivating medicinal plants, implementing various health programme based on Indian medical system with the participation of the mob is the major objective of the organization.




21.Kumaon Agriculture and Greenery Advancement Society(KAGAS)

web- https://www.kagas.org/



KAGAS, Pithoragarh is a non-governmental organization registered in 1992 under the Societies Registration Act of 1860. It is currently working with rural communities of Pithoragarh, Champawat, Udham Singh Nagar; Bageshwar and Nanital Districts of Uttarakhand State (India), Kagas is working in the field of community’s innovation, income-generation, watershed development, women empowerment, education community, health, and technology transfer.

We have been working with bilateral and international agencies like CIDA (Canadian International Development Agency), CECI (Canadian Center for International Studies and Cooperation), Action Aid, Skill share International, Room to Read, and also with State and National Governments.



22. Himalayan Study Circle (HSC)


web-http://himalayanstudycircle.org/



Himalayan Study Circle (HSC) with its basic belief in people-centered development, learning from the communities and where possible, extending support to the communities, has moved a long way since its inception in 1982. With this background, the community programs, initiated by the organization are need-based with a demand-driven approach. HSC is quite focused on its selection of the client communities, searching out those in need of support and guidance in retrieving their self -esteem. The vision statement of the organization itself is an innovating idea.

HSC is a non governmental organization established in the year 1982 at Pithoragarh registered under Registration act 1860, in 1986, HSC is also registered under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA), besides under the Income Tax Act one of the most backward and eco-fragile districts of the western region of Uttar Pradesh, now in the newly formed State of Uttarakhand. Dr. Dinesh Joshi, a journalist and social activist founded HSC with a vision of ‘Making the lives of Himalayan people as radiant as Himalaya itself’. The mission thus to ‘eradicate poverty, environmental degradation, disparity and social evils through People Centered Development process with understanding that the woman is the backbone of the hill economy’ with objectives:

1. Health Education, (preventive, promotive & curative) Training and advocacy for “health for all”.
2. Poverty alleviation through participatory community based initiatives.
3. Women and Child Development.
4. Economic and socio-cultural empowerment of disadvantaged mountain communities.
5. Environmental regeneration.
6. Promotion and capacity building of community based organizations and local NGOs and rural communities.
7. Advocacy and lobbing to bring about pro-poor policies and programmes.



23.Working Weekends on Organic Farms(WWOOF)



web-https://www.wwoofindia.org/


The consultants within WWOOF India Organics Pvt Ltd , have a wide range of disciplines and experience with the ability to provide farmer, growers, processors, packers and retailers with quality and cost effective advice and technical support right across the food chain on a national and international basis. As a client you can access all of this expertise.

The strength of the WWOOF India Organics Pvt Ltd team is the wide range of skills and expertise and the extensive network of organic sector contacts. These include organic farm business management advice, food production and procurement, protected cropping, horticulture, fruit, arable and root crop production, livestock management (dairy, poultry and pork), financial analysis, continuity programming, product development, food hygiene and safety, the development of quality systems cheaper certification options , and training to individuals, co-operative groups and corporate client




24. ek sankalp socity


web-http://eksankalp.blogspot.com/

1. ????? ??? ??????? ?? ??????? ????, ????, ??? ?????? ??? ?????? ????? ?? ?????? ????. 

2. ?????? ?????? /????? ??? ???????? ???? ?? ??:????? ?????? ?????? ??? ???? ?????? ???? ?? ?????? ?????. 

3. ?????? ????????? ?? ??????? ?? ??? ??????? ????????? ?? ?????? ????? ? ???? ???-??? ??? ???????? ?? ?????? ???? ?? ?????? ?????. 

4. ?????? ??? ?????? ?? ??? ??????? ????????? ?? ???? ??? ???????? ?????. 

5. ??????? ???????? ???? ???, ???, ????? ?????, ??? ???? ??? ?? ??? ???? ?? ?????? ????. 

6. ????-?????, ???????, ????????, ??????, ????, ????? ?????? ?? ??????? ?? ?????? ?? ?????? ????? ?? ?????? ????. 

7. ???????? ?? ??????? ?? ??? ????? ????. 

8. ?????? ?????? ?? ????? ??? ????? ????? ???? ?????? ????? ?????? ???? ? ???????? ?? ?????? ?????? ?? ??????????? ???? ?? ?????? ????. 


25.Corbett Gram Vikas Samiti


web-https://corbettvillage.in/


Over the last 15 years our simple community of Chhoti Haldwani has evolved into the Corbett Gram Vikas  Samiti. Our inception was as Kumaoni Sanskritik Utthan Manch 2002 to Corbett Dharohar Prabandi Samiti  to Corbett Gram Vikas Samiti in 2003. In 2004 it was registered under the societies act and has 80G & 12A certificates. Corbett Gram Vikas  Samiti is a registered Non-Government Organization, formed by the community of Chhoti Haldwani in 2002  to realize the dreams of Jim Corbett and follow his principles. It offers nature guide services,  heritage walks, bird watching, home-stays, and folk dance & music programs by its members as part of  its community based tourism programme.

An important activity of the members of the samiti who have been trained on nature and heritage walks  is to conduct the visitors on the various trails in Kaladhungi and Chhoti Haldwani. Visitors going on  these trails have to be accompanied by a guide from the samiti at a nominal charge. This fee is  distributed amongst the members of the samiti.
The village of Chotti Haldwani completed 100 years in 2015. The community of the village that Corbett  once owned remember him fondly till date and to realise his dreams and take his legacy forward have got  together to form the Corbett Gram Vikas Samiti(CGVS).




26.SIR SAYYED EDUCATIONAL SOCIETY

web-http://www.sseducational.org/default2.aspx


   We are happy to inform you about our society : SIR SAYYED EDUCATIONAL SOCIETY (REGD.) NO. 17558 (D). Sir Sayyed Educational Society (Regd.) is a no loss/no profit voluntary NGO which is working for the upliftment of the poor down trodden people in general and Minorities in particular by improving their Health and Economic & Educational development. The society bears its financial responsibilities by general public donations.
AIMS AND PROJECTS OF THE SOCIETY : 
Our society’s aims & projects, in brief, are as under : 
1. To set up & manage maximum number of Maktabs, Madrasas, Schools, Colleges, Institutions, Professional Training Centers, Coaching Centers, I.Ts. and Management Institutions for the minorities all over India. 
2. To set up a Scholarship Bank for poor meritorious students who want to continue their studies for higher education. 
3. To set up a Fund Bank to assist poor girls in performing their marriages. 
4. To set up & manage maximum number of Sewing & Embroidery Training Centers for widows & poor girls so that they could be self employed. 
5. To set up and manage Orphanages & Rehabilitation Centers for orphans & handicapped people in remote and slum areas. 
6. To set up and manage maximum number of Primary Health & Welfare Centers in remote and slum areas and to distribute medicines free of cost.
7. To promote mass movement to arouse public awareness about Greenery, Air & water pollutions. 
8. The decreasing trend in representation of Minority candidates in Indian Services is very alarming. Therefore, Sir Sayyed Educational Society has an ambitious and urgent project to set up and manage a standard “Coaching Center” to impart free coaching & training to the minority candidates for the preparation of I.F.S, I.A.S, I.P.S, P.C.S, and Judicial Services examinations so that maximum number of minority candidates could be selected for Indian Services and serve the Nation at higher level.

In view of its aims and projects the society is required huge money while the society has very limited sources of income. To fulfill its aims & projects the society is facing acute shortage of funds. Therefore, the society appeals to all well wishers, considering Sawab-e-jaria, to donate to this society generously. We pray Almighty Allah for reward you for involvement in aims & projects of the society targetted for the cause of up-liftment of poor down trodden people and for eradication of illiteracy, unemployment, mal health and mal-nutrition. It is a great pleasure for all of us that the Government has allotted us the facilities of 12 AA; 80 G and F.C.R.A. for the help for the cause of upliftment of down trodden people in the mother land.





27.SABIR FARIDI VIKAS SAMITI



web-http://sfvs.org.in/#

SABIR FARIDI VIKAS SAMITI is Registered on 21st February 2008 with Dehradun Office of Income Tax Office of Finance Ministry of Indian Government Under Section 12AA of Income Tax Act 1961. Sabir Faridi Vikas Samiti is registered on 15th May, 2008with Dehradun Office of Income Tax Office of Finance Ministry of Indian Government Under Section 80G of Income Tax Act 1961.

NOTE : Due to the effect of above Registration DONOR is entitled to claim Deductions Under Section 80G of Income Tax Act 1961 for All Donations given to "SABIR FARIDI VIKAS SAMITI". "

 

Founded in 2007, SABIR FARIDI VIKAS SAMITI is a not-for-profit, non government organization registered with the government of India. Our mission is to provide comprehensive rehabilitation, financial empowerment and integrated support to the people living a life of poverty and despair in the State of uttrarkhand of India.

To achieve our guiding principles, we have created a new vision which will determine our future strategy, and the way we behave as an organisation, will be inspired by the vision, rooted in the mission and shaped by the values.

After successful implementation of above project SABIR FARIDI VIKAS SAMITI will establish another project consisting of a guesthouse, medical college, Stiching house,Nari niketan,Oldage home, orpnage,Engineering College etc. in the PIRAN KALIYAR SAREEF 7 km from ROORKEE.

PIRAN KALIYAR, THE DARGAH of the noted SUFI SAINT, SABIR SAHEB, is the holiest DARGAH in the country, as that of Ajmer Sharif.

PIRAN KALIYAR, also known as KALIYAR SHARIF, is also the DARGAH place of a Sufi saint named ALA `UDDIN ALI AHMAD SABIR. It is only a half hours drive from Haridwar, but the natural tone makes the feel of the place completely different. The tomb is set in a village, whose only attraction is the presence of the saint, for whose blessings the faithful still seek, as at the shrine of HAZRAT NIZAM-UD-DIN, or BABA MU’IN UD-DIN CHISHTI.

But unfortunately in this area there is no facility of Higher Education & Hospitals & Medical Aids FOR The purpose of serving people, SABIR FARIDI VIKAS SAMITI IS PLANNING FOR OPENING SABIR DEEMED UNIVERSITY with ALLOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE, BDS DENTAL COLLEGE,A.NM,G.N.M, B.SC NURSING COLLEGE.


By these Establishments, The people of various casts & creeds can get free benefits & this area will progress. Moreover it will generate a lot of employment opportunities leading to development of people. Samiti will take help from Various People & Public Administration for doing all the above said works.



28.Parvatiya Jan Kalyan Sansthan (PJKS)


web-http://www.pjks.in/


Parvatiya Jan Kalyan Sansthan (PJKS) is a non-government, not for profit organization that has been working for the empowerment of the marginalized and deprived communities of Uttarakhand. Since its inception in 1990 the organization has been working for the economic and social development of people.

In PJKS we believe that when people get the opportunity to identify their needs and plan accordingly, the schemes and programmes crafted for them are optimally utilized and render the best results. Through participatory approach, PJKS always follows a bottom-up approach in all of its verticles and ensure informed participation of communities in its programmes.

Over the period, the organization has marked its presence as a committed, target oriented development agency, guided by professional values, with long-term objectives to pursue integrated community development.

In the journey of two decades, we have undertaken various interventions on the  issues like, livelihood and watershed management, value chain interventions, research & documentation, natural resource management, women empowerment, strengthening PRI, health and RCH, micro enterprise development etc.



29.SEWA Bharat


web-http://sewabharat.org/


SEWA Bharat is part of the national SEWA movement. Established in 1984, it is a national federation of SEWA organizations of women working in the informal economy. SEWA Bharat emerged out of the need to address the SEWA movement’s challenges with geographical expansion and coordination. SEWA Bharat is comprised of a family of SEWA organizations to further informal women workers’ rights, livelihoods, financial independence, education, health and social security.



30. Gokul Kendra

web- http://www.gokulatdoon.com/index.html



Life for the extra able gets torturous and depressive in remote as well as hilly areas of Uttarakhand due to the Physical Limitation and Tough Conditions resulting in Loss of jest for Life, cause heartache to their kinds & Loved ones. It's a gnawing pain to have a sibling, a spouse a parent or a child lost to disability. A Harsh ache of heart. This pain can be turned into happiness with positivity, care and affection of the society. The Society is so capable of the same. Everyone is doing its own effort. When the efforts of all unite, Gokul emerges with strong will and dedication to make the world a better Places for the Divyang persons residing in Tough, hilly terrain and remote posts of Uttarakhnd.

 

At Gokul we create an environment which inspires them to touch new heights of capabilities & success. This is the path we seek at Gokul. As a Catalyst to bring changes in the lives of extrable children and old ages people, who are not privileged, by addressing the real need at the grassroots level and also enabling the civil society to engage proactively in the change process and adopting the highest standard of governance and thereby emerging as an organization from Uttarakhand state, India.



31. Hills Development Mission (HDM) 

web- http://www.hdmindia.com/index.html


Hills Development Mission (HDM) is a Secular, Non Profit and Non-Governmental Voluntary Organization working for upliftment and sustainable development of Hill communities since 2002 without discrimination of race, caste, creed, sex, community and religion. The Organization is registered under Societies Registration Act, 1860 having its registration No. 1265/2001-2002 dated 11-03-2002. 

HDM is an autonomous Organisation set up by a team of experienced and eminent professionals with a view to tap various aspects of community development through participation with an objective to determine the factors hindering sustainable development and discover the hidden bottlenecks of strategies and policies. Although the original thrust of the Organization is to focus different innovative and creative development activities. Our team of professionals provides long-term as well as short-term management support services to development initiatives. The team is capable of handling and resolving various challenges so as to bring effectiveness and efficiency in the development of community. 

We work with the Urban and Village Community of the State on sustainable development initiatives with strong felt need of taking proactive steps for strengthening primary and secondary education services, promoting agricultural productivity, fruits & vegetables, employment generation, health awareness, and to specifically focus capacity building and facilitation activities. It was imperative for us to stress the emphasis on quality improvement and a planned, more equitable expansion of these sectors and related facilities. 




32.The Latika Roy Foundation

web-https://latikaroy.org/


The Latika Roy Foundation is a voluntary organization in India working with children and adults who have developmental and other disabilities. As a resource centre for people with special needs, we provide early intervention services, livelihoods development, education, training and awareness. We believe that when we plan for the most vulnerable the world works better for everyone. Our rights-based approach challenges injustice and demonstrates how inclusion works. If you are a person with disability, a parent, a professional or someone who cares, there’s a place for you in the Latika Roy Foundation.



33.Eco adventreks and welfare society (EAAWS)


web- http://eaaws.org.in/index.html





The charitable society Eco adventreks and welfare society (EAAWS) was formed by Mr. Michael Singh (Manoj) in the year 2000.The prime aims of the society: Is to reach the under privileged and under served oppressed communities of India. Providing them with Education, health care, development, life supporting needs, medicals aid and awareness and assistances for the better life.

Secondly our focuses on the strategic awareness to the grassroots level of population who are directly and indirectly linked in creating the imbalance in the ecosystem of Himalayas. Eco-humanitarian education is our concern.


Working since last five year our society is serving our nation through several projects targeting the poorest of the poor, we thank our Almighty God who blessed us with his powerful guidance and support in pursuing our duty and delicately serving the nation. Since the launch of Eco-adventreks and welfare society we are able so impact population of more than 20,000 directly or directly to achieve their mission for better life.

Legal Status:

Eco-adventreks and welfare society is Registered (Number. 732) Charitable Non - Government Organization (NGO) it is registered under the societies Registration act 1860 Government of India. From Dehradun office in state of Uttranchal (India) in the year 2002

Charitable Exemptions:
The certificate 12A was awarded to the society in the year 2002 which allot us the tax free donation from out side India.



The certificate of F.C.R.A foreign contribution regulation act No.347900092 was awarded by the Government of India Home ministry in the year 2004 as a cultural economic educational & social NGO Society is also awarded the certificate of tax exemption under the 80G act government of India.



Eco-adventreks and welfare society is a Charitable Non profitable, non government organization based in the capital city of Dehradun,Uttranchal.The initiatives of EAAWS is directly impacting the lives of more than 22,000 of population who live in poorest of conditions at the remote villages of Himalayas, semi and urban slums and shanties




34.Centre For Ecology Development And Research


web-http://www.cedarhimalaya.org/index.php


CEDAR is a not-for-profit organization registered in 2006 under the Societies Act of 1860. The registered office of CEDAR is located in Delhi while the main operations office is based in Dehradun. CEDAR was established when a group of academics and development practitioners came together to bridge the gap between applied research and field based interventions or, to put it differently, ‘balance theory and practice’. The development sector has, for long, been caught in the divide between theoreticians and practitioners. This divide has set the sector back and deprived it of the opportunity to continuously assess and improve its work. This has also had implications for policy formulation whereby the lack of a right blend of lessons from the field, properly documented and analyzed, has led to information gap in policy formulation. CEDAR sees its role to straddle this divide and help fill the information gap in policy formulation.
The research activities of CEDAR essentially focus on generating, monitoring and interpreting socio-ecological field-data that can improve the management of natural resources. Central to CEDAR’s ideology is the recognition that local communities must participate in conservation. Therefore, in addition to building core research competence in forestry, ecology and social sciences, the organization works towards strengthening links between communities and ecosystems by networking with grass-root organizations.



35.Satyadham Samajik Seva Jan kalyan Sanstha Samitii


web- http://satyadhamsamajikseva.org/


Satyadham Samajik Seva Jan kalyan Sanstha Samitiis the childcare, Widows Care, oldage care charity, campaigning for quality, accessible, affordable childcare for all and raising the voices of children, parents and carers. We advise parents and carers, providers,employers, trade unions and policymakers on childcare issues.






36. Aasraa Trust


web- https://aasraatrust.org/


Aasraa Trust was established as a social work trust focusing on education of underprivileged children in 2009, in response to a crisis for intervention for the welfare of children from the riverbed slum under the Bindal bridge. Aasraa then worked with the river bed community to promote the need for education and started an after school project to augment school education.

Project Street Smart was started on the pavements of Astley Hall in 2011 with a group of 5 street children. The objective was to keep the children off the streets and provide them with basic literacy through art, craft, music and audio visual medium.

Today, Aasraa works towards empowering street and slum children through education, vocational training, nutrition, medical care and providing shelter homes. Our mission is to level the playing field for children who have neither seen books nor stepped into a school. The children we work with come from extremely impoverished backgrounds and are mostly rag pickers, beggars, addicts, runaways and orphans. We work with more than 1400 children.




















