
121. Zila Yuva Vikas Sanghthan

web- http://zyvs.org


Zila Yuva Vikas Sanghthan is a Non-Profit Organization. ZYVS is a National Level Development Organization which was established in Year 2005 and was registered in Year 2006 with an objective of providing sustainable development to Urban and Rural areas of India. ZYVS is the Sanghthan of the Youth for the change. ZYVS shall meet the aspirations of young generation. Though the movement has been initiated by Mr. Tarun Kaushal & Mr. Naresh Mittal under the banner of Zila Yuva Vikas Sanghthan but it is the dream of every Indian to see its country well developed, self sufficient, capable and well managed. People from all walks of life, breaking the boundaries of religion, caste, region, etc. have joined the movement and its number is increasing day by day. ZYVS movement of change is being spreading the state of Haryana and shall move to other states in due course of time. ZYVS believes that Social power is necessary tool to bring the change.

 
ZYVS has been undertaking various development programs in various sectors and areas providing support to the Children from Child Abuse, Labour, Abandonment, Rescue from Abuse, Child Lost, Sponsorship, Shelter, etc, provided help to aged people and moreover Empowering Women. In this process, the organization had not only achieved a tremendous field presence but also had developed a body of professional belonging to various streams. ZYVS also established a vast network of volunteer at a grass root level and consultants at regional level, in the hope that someday it will bring fragrance to society. The Human Resource (HR) Asset enables the Organization to undertake and implement various projects of varying nature in a professionalized manner to overcome the problems of society. In each Organizational Programme, we always focus on achieving sustainability and reliability in the programme.

Today more than 8.4 million children in India are not going to school and many of them are away from their home and doing labour work as they are surrounded by the poverty, abuse and many horrible life challenging battles for the survival that make them to do what they dont want to do. Zila Yuva Vikas Sanghthan is currently running National CHILD HELPLINE 1098 in District Ambala (Haryana). From Feb., 2011 to till date Childline has solved more than 1763 cases of Child Abuse, Child Labour, Child Abandonment, Shelter, etc. and we are proud to be a part of the change in Society that bring the lost one to their family, providing shelter to the homeless, saving the lost soul form child abuse. Providing sustainability in the life of children, and If you want, then together we can bring the change and make it last forever.

ZYVS Adopted about 68 children under Enlight Life Kids in Need, Canada of 10+1 & 10+2 Class and is paying all the all the expenses of their education. From which 95% of children are girls.

Zila Yuva Vikas Sanghthan is working towards social problems like healthcare, enhancing the level of education provided to the students, working towards women empowerment, creating livelihood opportunities, providing help to the marginalized communities and advocacy for the rights of Women and Girls so that the equality can be maintained in the society. Till now many programmes have been organized on health, women empowerment, girls education, livelihood, disaster preparedness, eye treatment for aged, etc. We have reached more people since before and provide facilities in deep remote areas.

With the collaboration of other organizations Government as well as Private, ZYVS strengthen the planning and implementation of the events and programmes. We also expanded our collaboration with individuals, communities, corporate and other stake holder to bring best practice.



122. Foundation Against Thalassaemia


web- http://www.thalassaemia.in/


ìFoundation Against Thalassaemia Regd.î is a registered NGO based at Faridabad Haryana India. Foundation was set up in 1995 and was registered under societies act 1860/21 on 24 April 2001 by a group of parents & charitable members of community. Foundation received no subvention [grant] from Government over the years, Foundation had been inspired to work towards improving clinical care, enhance public awareness of Thalassaemia. This is to ensure that children born with Thalassaemia major can grow in the healthy and happy environment. Its members are engaged in various activities aimed for 'Prevention and Treatment' of a dreaded disease Thalassaemia. 

We are helping Thalassaemics by providing free medicines and blood. As you know Thalassaemia is genetic incurable disease in which affected child unable to maintain normal hemoglobin level. Completely depending on the periodic blood transfusion and regular supply of medicines till the very end of their lives, the children suffering from the scourge of Thalassaemia cannot be treated with any type of diet/tonic or medicine. The only solution effected child requires blood transfusion at the interval of 15 to 20 days to survive and also requires costly medicines approximate 5 to 10 thousands per month. The treatment is too torturous and painful besides heavy expenses; patients and their parents have to suffer heavy mental tension. 

Our organization Foundation Against Thalassaemia is the only one organization in Haryana, which is fighting a battle of survival for the Children suffering from the deadly disease in a bigway. 

Permanent and best treatment for such children is Bone Marrow Transplantation (B.M.T.) with a matched brother / sister. In India Bone Marrow Transplantation is available at Christian Medical College and Hospital, Vellore Tamil Nadu. The estimated cost of B.M.T at C.M.C H Vellore is around 12 lac. In addition to this cost, medicines and timely investigation before and after B.M.T costs another 2 ñ 3 lac making a total budget of Rs. 14 ñ 15 Lac. [1 Dollar = approximate Rs.45 Indian currency] 


123. Anadi Seva Prakalp

web- http://www.anadisevaprakalp.org/

About Us

Anadi Seva Prakalp was formed with the main object to organize, develop capabilities in rural poor people of and community to improve their position in the society through economic activities. The major aspect of the society is empowerment of women through economic generation activities. It is to support under privileged and deprived children with proper protection , education and training so that their dignity may be valued .


MISSION 

Anadi Seva Prakalp is working in the field of rural development & society welfare in the slum of urban and backward areas especially to uplift the socio- economic condition of neglected impecunious and weaker section of the community. It places strong emphasis on poor women & children who suffer the burnt of Economic, Social and Culture deprivation. Anadi Seva Prakalp is Registered Society under the Societies Act-1860(Revised time to time) with its Head quarters at Faridabad, Haryana (Plot no-555 Sec-21/C, FBD) having Republic of India as its area of operation , so far it has two branchs offices in addition to the Head Quarter:-


124. SaiDham Foundation

web- https://www.saidham.in/


SaiDham Foundation is an initiative of Shirdi Sai Baba Temple Society, Faridabad (Haryana) to serve the humanity through its various activities such as providing free and high quality education to over 2000 poor children with food, clothing, study material, sports, health care and excursions; free skill development to youth with placement; healthcare to the needy and facilitating social well-being like mass marriages, and women empowerment benefitting more than 2,00,000 families in 4 states across India.

We at SaiDham have always believed that lack of education amongst the underprivileged is the main ailment which is plaguing the nation and preventing the all-round development of individuals. SaiDham Foundation aims to transform the fundamental aspects involved in primary education. We adopt a holistic approach. Our educational program developed in response to the need for moral, character and social development of the young buds make them became responsible citizens of India.

Every Child should have access to high-quality education without cost, skill development with placement, nutritious food and proper medical care.

SaiDham Foundation provides Skill training in its premises by providing training to underprivileged in industrial sewing, dress designing, beauty culture, electronics, plumbing, electrical and hospitality etc. The programs have seen great success with huge appreciation by youth and the Corporate.

SaiDham, established in 1988, ISO 9001:2008 certified, it is a non-profit organization engaged in the socio-economic uplifting of the society, cutting across caste, creed, color and religion.


125. Association for Stimulating Know-how (ASK)


web- http://www.askindia.org/

Association for Stimulating Know-how (ASK) is a not for profit development organisation, registered in 1993, under the Societies Registration Act, XXI of 1860.

ASK is committed to the vision of bringing measurable change to marginalised communities at grassroots through active engagement with partners in the process. ASK works with communities, NGO, Corporations, funders, bilateral and multilaterals on Projects and programs all over India, in parts of South and South East Asia, Africa and the Middle East.

ASK focuses on strengthening organisation and stakeholder capacities by providing contextual inputs and sustainable solutions that focus on results, quality improvement and accountability. Our continuous focus is on providing hands-on accompaniment and support to our partners to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and skills and contribute towards organisational growth.

The organisation has a proven track record of supporting mission-driven organizations through various stages of development and requirements from strategy and mentorship to evaluation, research and documentation and capacity building.

ASK is known to work with strong values, integrity, transparency, and accountability, providing customized and relevant inputs to our partners and target communities.



126. bharti foundation


web- https://www.bhartifoundation.org/


 Vision

To help underprivileged children and young people of our country realize their potential.

Mission

Committed to creating and supporting programs that bring about sustainable changes through education and use of technology.

Goals

To improve the accessibility and quality of education across rural India.
To provide education and training opportunities to the youth of our country in order to make them employable


127. ADRA India 


web- http://www.adraindia.org


Identity
ìThe Adventist Development and Relief Agency is a global humanitarian organization ?of the Seventh-Day Adventist Church that demonstrates Godís love and compassion.î

Mission
ìADRA works with people in poverty and distress to create positive change and ?justness through empowering partnerships and responsible action.î

Vision
ìADRA is a professional, learning and efficient network that embodies integrity and ?transparency. ADRA reaches across boundaries empowering and speaking out for the ?at-risk and forgotten to achieve measurable, documented and durable changes in lives ?and society.î


128. Voice of Specially Abled People


web- www.voiceofsap.org


Vision:

To become the ìTransformation Catalystî for the world to become an ìINCLUSIVEî place where Specially Abled People enjoy equality as human beings, opportunity to excel and contribute based on their abilities and lives with dignity and independence.

Mission:

To create a mass movement and be the ìCHANGE MAKERî with comprehensive, collective THOUGHT LEADERSHIP, ACTIONS and ADVOCACY for the EMPOWERMENT of 7 crore Specially Abled People (SAP) through Accessibility, Education and Employment that helps build the INCLUSIVE 21st century Indian society.


129. Swasth Foundation


web- http://www.swasth.org/



Our mission is derived from understanding the origin of our name, ìSwasthî, a Sanskrit word often translated as Healthy. As we explore the origin of the word, ìSwasthî is composed from 2 words, namely ìSwaî + ìSthî. Swa means ìSelfî and Sth means ìBeing Stableî, thus Being Swasth means ìBeing Stable in Selfî. This to a great extent is synonomous to Health as defined by WHO.



130. Sukarya

web- https://www.sukarya.org/

Sukarya is a non-profit organization, registered in 2001 under Indian Trust Act 1982 with its Trust deed registration # 7373 dated 3rd August 2000. 

Registered with FCRA registration # 231660689 dated 31st March 2006. 

Registered under the Income Tax Act 80G with its registration # DIT (E) 2008-2009/S-2784/7901, Income Tax Act 12-A registration # 645 dated 15th January 2001.

Sukarya has been  working to improve the health and overall well being of the underprivileged and underserved people, especially women, children and adolescents living in the villages and slums of Haryana, Delhi and Rajasthan.

Sukarya is an accredited member of Credibility Aliance for desirable norms effective for 2015-2020. Credibility Alliance is a consortium of Voluntary Organizaions and networks, coming together to enhance good governanece in the voluntary/NGO sector.

Registered with GiveIndia and empanelled with TISS (Tata Institute of Socia Scences) and Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs

In 1998, we took our first steps with passion, enthusiasm and determination to help and heal the health of women and children who were neglected and unattended in the rural areas of Haryana, Rajasthan and in the peri-urban areas of Delhi and Gurgaon (currently Guru Gram). The tasks were challenging, the obstacles were many but we stayed undaunted. Over the years we have been successful in not only setting up strong healthcare services for women, children and adolescents but also influence factors that affect their health seeking behavior - such as economic empowerment, education, environment and nutrition. In all our interventions, the spotlight has always been on empowering people by building their awareness and equipping them with right information. Through this we have been able to make a change that is permanent and wehave gone further by forming self-help groups that trained and taught those who we serve to earn, become independent and thus take control of their lives.

Today , Sukarya is known as a credible and dedicated organization in the field of health with a special focus on mother and children, self-help groups (SHG) and  women's empowerment. A vision of a society where good health is within easy reach for everyone,  inspires and drives all our work. We work in hard to reach areas serving the most vulnerable people by offering them opportunities to live a healthy and better life. We provide men and women a range of quality services ranging from comprehensive health care, antenatal care, and reproductive and child health care. We work to ensure that women and children are well nourished and protected from common illness.  We build awareness about key health issues and focus on overcoming barriers that constrain women, children and adolescents in seeking timely medical help. We work to address the larger issues of low social and economic status of women that in turn influence their health seeking behaviour because we believe that women have the right to be in control of their lives.


131. The WILDLIFE PROTECTION SOCIETY OF INDIA (WPSI)

web- http://www.wpsi-india.org

The WILDLIFE PROTECTION SOCIETY OF INDIA (WPSI) was founded in 1994 by Belinda Wright, its Executive Director, who was an award-winning wildlife photographer and filmmaker till she took up the cause of conservation. From its inception, WPSI's main aim has been to bring a new focus to the daunting task of tackling India's growing wildlife crisis. It does this by providing support and information to government authorities to combat poaching and the  escalating illegal wildlife trade - particularly in wild tigers. It has now broadened its focus to deal with human-animal conflicts and provide support for research projects.

With a team of committed environmentalists, WPSI is one of the most respected and effective wildlife conservation organisations in India. It is a registered non-profit organisation, funded by a wide range of Indian and international donors. The Societyís Board Members include leading conservationists and business people.

OUR MISSION

WPSI aims to bring new focus and energy to tackle the growing wildlife crisis in India. Our goal is to protect endangered species and their habitats through awareness, support, and training. We are committed to creating an enduring paradigm to conserve India's wildlife by working with local communities and government agencies to curb poaching and the illegal wildlife trade across the country.


132. Ramraj Environment


web- http://ramrajenvironment.org/?i=1

Ramraj Environment is a grassroots non-governmental organization founded in 2009 by service minded and dedicated youth of Gurgaon district in the state of Haryana. Limited social and economic development prompted a team to start this organization to address unmet needs in the community. The NGO is registered under the society registration act, 1860 (21 of 1860) All India and renewed under Societies act 2012.

Since 2009, our Ngo has worked in various sectors such as Livelihood, Rural Development, Skill Development, Environment, Health, Women Empowerment and Employment.


133. Literacy India

web- http://www.literacyindia.org/


Literacy India can rightly be synonymized with three very powerful words: Education, Empowerment and Employment. The very essence of Literacy India are these three Eís which are both powerful and paramount in transforming lives!
Literacy India was born in 1996 as a non-profit organization with the objective of educating under privileged women and children, and empowering them to become self-reliant and employable.

The name Literacy India is a misnomer because, although literacy is the predominant initiative of the organization, this initiative is reinforced with a variety of vocational skills and alternative models of education that are relevant, holistic and enriching. Capt. Indrani Singh, who conceptualized Literacy India says,î the idea is to equip underprivileged children and women with basic education and also identify, nurture and develop their latent talent and skills wherein empowering them and increasing their employability quotientî.

VISION

It is Literacy Indiaís motto to impart basic education to women and children. The emphasis is on providing education not in a typical classroom manner, but to give a child a wider canvas of exposure in a socio-cultural environment. Literacy India envisions to keep its studentís at par with the fast evolving world around them. In line with this thought, Literacy India is looking at transforming the education landscape through exposing the student to a more innovative and non-traditional method of learning. This includes fun activities and workshops on group learning, drama, dance, role plays etc.

Eminent personalities from different walks of life come and interact with the children and prove to be a catalyst to the childís motivation and enthusiasm to do well. The interest generated in these activities also helps identify talent which, with further guidance can pursue further education or vocational training.


134. Khushboo Welfare Society (Khushboo) 

web- http://www.kwsindia.org/


Khushboo Welfare Society (Khushboo) was established on 13 November 1995 as a non profit organization under the Societies Act, 1860 to provide holistic care and multifarious services to people with mental and multiple disabilities.

Khushboo's Vision and Mission
 

Our Vision
To have a society where the physically and mentally challenged lead a life of care, dignity and respect.

Our Mission
Help the physically and mentally challenged to become self reliant, realise their full potential and enhance their capabilities to the maximum possible.


135. SPASTIC SOCIETY OF GURGAON


web- http://www.ssog.in/


Our Mission
It is an occasion of great joy and celebration when a child is born. But in some cases after few months of the birth, the family discovers that the child is not able to hold objects, crawl or walk. A spine chilling news is broken to the parents that the child has an incurable and irreversible condition called ëCerebral Palsyí and may never be able to hold neck, walk or talk like a normal child next door. A sense of gloom dawns for a few days, at times, it lingers on for many years before the parents get adjusted to the thought of being mother and father of a spastic child. But, then, life is as such. One is to outgrow this sense of gloom.

On the positive side, in the journey of life, parents are blessed with a new companion who is to be taken care of. In case of cerebral palsy the period of care is prolonged and provides more psychological fulfillment to parents whereas bestowing of filial love on children is concerned. But, one feeling which one is unable to overcome as a parent to a spastic child is that what will happen to the child after death of the mother, the father or the caregiver, towards whom the child was always anxiously looking for all his daily care and emotional needs. This thought prompted us to take certain initiatives for short term and long term care of these children.



136. Crime reformer association(CRA)


web- http://www.cra4u.com/


Crime reformer association(CRA) is a pan-India non-government organization established in 2001. The objective of the organization is to check and fight the evils of the society for its betterment. The organization is registered under the Societies Registration Act of XXI, 1860 since February, 2008.

In our organization (crime reformer association) we have total a team of 150 retd. IAS & IPS officers and also we have many famous Industrialists near by the Haryana, also the high profile businessman and so many government retired officers also 50 members are working for the organization free of cost for the welfare and growth of the organization. In our organization, we have lots of members like school going or college going students. We mainly fight for the prostitution which is now a dayís spoiling the lives of the youngsters.



137. Adhikaar - the rights path

web- http://www.adhikaar.in/


Adhikaar - the rights path is an NGO registered with the Govt of Haryana in 2006-07 and is actively working in the NCR (National Capital Region) for Civil, Consumer and Human Rights for all sections of society. It is supported by an active team of volunteers comprising of eminent people from various walks of life. We have our dedicated team of lawyers, scholars, retired judges, retired senior officers from civil and military working on purely voluntary basis with an aim to raise awareness and also to take up cases with appropriate authorities when brought to our notice. We also offer following services to public at large:-

Free consultations
Advice on above matters
Organise campaigns, seminars and lectures to spread awareness about citizen rights!


138. sanshi foundation

web- http://www.sanshil.com/#


coming soon...


139. Hema Foundation

web- https://www.hemafoundation.org


Hema Foundation is a philanthropic arm of the Ram Ratna Group, working towards imparting CULTURAL & MORAL EDUCATION to children at a very impressionable young age. The foundation looks to enlighten children about the key roles played by parents and society in shaping them into fine individuals. It aims to cultivate better and compassionate understanding of their responsibilities towards Self, Family, Society, the Nation at large, and help them become better human beings.

 

The importance of Value Education has been long recognized but the methods to impart have not been definitive. Seeing is Believing. There is no impact quite like a visual impact. With this understanding, the foundation has produced few short films on Human Values with strong meaningful messages. An interactive session between the teacher and the children on the relevant subject, followed by playing of the documentaries and ending with resolutions, would be an high impact method to drive the point across into the hearts and minds of children.


140. SRIMS EMERGENCY SERVICE FOUNDATION¬


web-  http://srimsemergency.com/


Incorporated on 20 November, 2009 SRIMS EMERGENCY SERVICE FOUNDATION¬ù is a non-profit organization setup as a section 25 company to provide free life saving services. Healthcare is arising as a big boom and SRIMS has reinvented the existing healthcare scenario by trying to bring it closer to the patient with its preventive, curative and palliative care. We sponsor and implement programs that promote road safety, prevent accident and create traffic awareness. Our health related programs will help respond to physical emergency situations like fainting, seizures, stroke/brain attack, heat exhaustion, heart attack, cardiac arrest, choking, asthma, allergic reaction, head injury, nose bleed, burns, animal bite, fractures and the like. Steps to help manage and provide first aid during natural disasters like earthquake, fire, flood as well as severe weather is also initiated by us. Further, emergency medical service in the form of ambulance, well-equipped mobile dispensaries, health camps, hospitals and dispensaries are made avail through us.



141. Srishti Foundation

web- http://srishtifoundation.info/


Srishti Foundation is a national level development organisation directly benefitting over 1000 children and their families every year, through 100 welfare projects on education, healthcare, livelihood and women empowerment, in more than 100 remote villages and slums across 25 states of India.

Education is both the means as well as the end to a better life: the means because it empowers an individual to earn his/her livelihood and the end because it increases one's awareness on a range of issues ñ from healthcare to appropriate social behavior to understanding one's rights ñ and in the process help him/her evolve as a better citizen.



142. MDD INDIA


web- http://www.mddindia.org


VISION
To Provide love, care, protection, education and opportunities to the desperate, destitute and underprivileged.

MISSION 
To work towards our vision by providing care, shelter, training and capacity to the underprivileged and marginalized, who live in streets/pavement, slums, villages and other areas, irrespective of religion, caste, creed, colour, language, region and community.



143. sahash india


web- http://www.sahashindia.org


Vision:
Society for Animal Health Agriculture Science and Humanity (SAHASH) is a nonprofit organization with a mission to think, promise and work together within India to achieve a lasting improvement in the quality of life of the poor.

Mission:
SAHASH is dedicated to the betterment of society; Economically, Educationally and Culturally. To work for deprived people for their upliftment and betterment with special emphasis on children, farmers and women and to provide them with livelihood opportunities and bring them into the mainstream of society.




























































































